Here are the top 60 Linux
commands you need to know,
and we're gonna do this in 10 minutes.
Our first command can be used anywhere.
It's SSH because you can't use
Linux unless you can get to it.
To connect to your Linux machine,
you'll specify your user it,
then the ad symbol and then the
server you're gonna connect to.
So I'll copy the IP address of my lin
node that I just set up past that in here.
Hit enter. Accept all fingerprints.
Put your password in and or in the LS
command will list all the files in your
current working directory.
We can add the L switch to give us a
nice list and we can add the A switch to
see the hidden stuff. Elix is a big
place. Where are you with the PWD command?
You can find out print working
directory. It'll tell you where you are,
but if you don't wanna be there, we
can change that with the CD command.
Change directory. Just after CD
will tell it where you want to go.
Maybe the root of the file system who
we made it guess or we can specify a
specific path.
With cd.dot we can jump back one
directory and with CD space nothing,
we can click our heels and get back. Home.
Touch is the quickest and
easiest way to create a file.
Type in touch with a file name
in you got yourself a file.
We can create more than one file.
Every one of those words in that
sentence will be its own file <laugh>.
Or we can do something weird like this
or we could even create a file in the
future by using the dash D switch and
specifying the date it's created a file
from the future. And seriously shout
out Tolin for sponsoring this video.
Whenever I need to do anything in Lennox,
I go Tolin node and spend out the quick
virtual machine to do stuff like this.
And it only costs me 0.01
cents an hour. When I'm done,
I destroy it and that's all
I'm charged. Check it out.
Link below the Echo command allows you
to talk to yourself or we can use it to
add stuff to a file really quickly.
We'll specify the right arrow and then a
name of a file, a new or existing file.
But if you really want to
edit a file like a Linux Pro,
you'll use Nano Nano and
then the file name. And boom,
we're editing a file to
save your file with Nano,
you'll hit control x Y and enter to save.
Now if you're Lennox Pro that thinks
you're better than everybody else,
you'll use them, them the file name
and now you can try to edit a file.
The best way is to hit I to start
inserting text and once you're done,
hit Escape Colon and wq to write and quit.
Now if you wanna see what's inside a file,
really quickly use the Cat Command
Cat and then the file name super fast.
And if you don't want anyone to ever see
what's in that file, you can shred it.
Shred the file name and
cat that one. Again,
nothing looks like a cat road.
We can make a new directory
with the M K D I R command,
but right now he's empty, it's lonely.
So let's copy something in there.
We can copy a file of the CP command.
We'll specify our file and then where we
want it to go. If you don't wanna copy,
you can use the MV command to
move the file, Specify the file,
you wanna move and then
where you wanna put it.
We can remove or delete a file with the
RM command and we can remove a directory
with the RM D i R command.
But if it's not empty,
we can go back to the RM command and
do a dash R for recursive and try that
done.
We can create a link to a file with the
LM command using the S switch for soft,
we'll specify the file and then the
link. Now if your terminal's a bit dirty,
you can clean it off, type in clear.
Ah, so much better Coffee break.
If you don't know who you are,
you can type in who am I and it'll
tell you existential crisis over.
If you don't like who you
are, you can change that.
Let's first create a new person.
We'll use the ad user command
and then the username, Oh,
too bad we don't have permission,
but we have pseudo or psdo specify
pseudo Before your command,
enter your pseudo password
and you're good to go.
We can also reverse the command by doing
ad user instead of user ad and we'll be
able to set some parameters
like passwords and stuff.
Now if I wanna become Nick or Austin,
I can do that with the SU
command for Switch user.
SU specify the username and I am Austin,
but I don't wanna be Austin anymore.
I can use the exit command, type in
exit back to V and Me. And by the way,
the exit command can be used
to exit at a lot of places.
Now Nick didn't have a password but I can
change that with the password command.
P A S S W D and then the username.
If you wanna change your password,
just type in password or password.
Type into the terminal. Pseudo
password, Millie password,
but it's so it's just password <laugh>.
Now this next command is kind of
weird and you'll have to install,
it's called Finger <laugh>.
It's really strange, trust me.
But to install that we'll need to
learn a new command on Debbie and Base
Machines. We'll use a P t but hold
up. Before we can install anything,
we have to update our repositories.
So we'll do pseudo a P t update whilst
doing, That'll take a coffee break.
If you're on Red Hat or sent to West,
you'll use the Yum package manager and
if you're on Arch or anything else,
you're on your own. After an update,
we'll do a pseudo a P T install and the
name of our package which will be finger
done and now we can use that
command Finger can be used
to inspect another user.
So I might want to inspect
Austin. It's pretty handy.
The Man command will help you with
things you don't know, which is a lot,
at least for me.
You find out what the finger command
does by doing Man Finger <laugh>.
That sounds weird. It'll tell us
all about it and how to use it.
Hit Q to get outta there. We
can man Cat, we can man, man.
So when in doubt consult your manual.
Now a faster man is what
is type in what is Finger.
It'll tell you real quick or maybe
you wanna know where finger is,
you can type in which finger,
which will tell you one place,
but you wanna know where
all the fingers are.
So say where is Finger W Get
can help you get stuff from the
internet. Like maybe you wanna
download the entire Bible in text form.
We can do that right now. And
there it is, the entire Bible.
Another way to download is with Curl,
my personal favorite type in curl the URL
you wanna download from and then using
the right arrow, direct that to
something else like a file Done.
Now the Bible's kind of big, what do
you say? We made that file smaller.
We can zip it up.
Zip the zip file you wanna create
and what you wanna zip inside.
Hey that wasn't too bad.
Now often you might want to unzip
something with the unzip command,
specify that file name and some
other options and you're good to go.
Now if we wanna read our file we could
cat it but that's crazy. Come on.
A better way is using the less
command, giving you one page at a time.
Just the way I like it.
If you only wanna see the beginning
of your file type in head,
what about the end type and tail?
If you wanna compare two files
to see if they are the same,
like this guy and this guy, use
these CMP command for a compare.
Specify your two files and hey,
we do have a difference but it didn't
tell us what it only told us where for
that we can use the diff command specify
files and it will tell us exactly
what's different. You decide what's true,
the sort command will sort your
stuff alphabetically. So for example,
I could cat the Bible,
do a pipe and type in sort at the end
the entire Bible in alphabetical order
ending with Zephaniah.
The fine command is nuts and will help
you well fine things type in fine.
Specify what directory you wanna look in.
I'm gonna look in all of them and then
specify a name of a file with a regular
express BAM files found. You
can also find all hidden files,
empty directories or all executable
files. And speaking of executable,
how do you make a file executable?
We'll change the attributes with the CH
mod command and do a plus x and then the
file name and now it executes.
We can change the ownership of that
file with the CHONe command or change
ownership. Specify the user and
then the file. Congrats Austin,
you own a file time for some network
stuff. Copy break. What's your IP address?
I have config. If you don't have
it, install it. Let's try it again.
If F conf fit, there it is.
You could also try IP address
which makes more sense.
Same information just better.
Now what if you only wanna
see it for one interface?
For that we can use GR grip is crazy.
I love gr same command IP address.
For this time I'll use a pipe type inre
and say Ethan Nets zero to only see
Ethan at zero's IP address. Bam.
We could grip again do another pipe
grip for ANet and it only shows you that
line. But what if we only wanna
see the IP address for that?
We can use a A is even crazier than gre.
Just after our grips I'll A this put
in a crazy regular expression and get
exactly what I want. Now what
about dns? What's our dns sir?
One way is we can cat it.
Cat the et tc resolve with no e.com file.
But if you're on newer
versions of things like Ubuntu,
you might see something like
this not very informative.
Instead we can type in resolve
with an E CTL status and there
it is. Now is your website
up? We can find out with Ping.
We can find out if anything's up with
ping ping and then the name of the
website. Get responses
forever. Hit control C to stop.
We can limit that with a dash C command
specifying the count of things we wanna
send just five. We can specify
the size of the packets.
If you wanna see the path through the
internet you're taking to get to a
website, you can use the trace
route command, which is so cool.
Trace route and then the name of the
site telling you every haw and that
latency. Now what ports are
open on your Linux machine?
We can check it out with netstat net
Statistics, this gives you a lot.
Do you not wanna try netstat dash
two lupin, all those switches,
which is much better. A more
modern version is the SS command,
which is basically the same thing.
Use a topen switches and it's nice and
pretty. Now what about your firewall?
Are things getting through
or do you wanna block 'em?
If you wanna to allow pour 80,
you could run something like this,
which is honestly kind of complex.
That's why U F W is way easier.
This sits on top of IP tables
and makes it so much easier.
If I want to allow pour 80,
just do U F W allow 80 as psdo
done. See what you're
allowing with U FW status,
which right now it's not even enabled.
So we can enable it with U F W enable.
Then check our status
once more. Beautiful.
Now if you wanna know a bit more about
your system, you can use the you name,
command, you name. It'll tell you just
a little bit. If you type in dash A,
it'll tell you a lot. Now if you
want a prettier version of all this,
try Neo fetch. Going  to
install that real quick.
A t install neo fetch and then simply
run Neo fetch. And how pretty is that?
The Cal command will give you
a quick little calendar here.
I don't know why you want that, but
it's kind of cool. If you don't have it,
you can install it with
pseudo A P t install n cal.
If you wanna do some math
right here in your terminal,
you can echo a problem out to bcbc
will tell you what the answer is.
If you wanna check on your memory and
see how much memory you have available on
your system, just type in free.
It'll tell you what's used and
what's going on with your swap.
How much  space do you have?
You can use the DF command
and more specifically the
DF dash capital H command.
You're gonna use that one all the time.
What about the stuff running
on your system? The processes?
We can use the PS command,
which won't tell you much unless
you use the PS A U X switch.
Then we can get all the goodies.
If you wanna see the processes eating
up all your stuff, type in top.
If you wanna see that in a prettier way,
type in H top <laugh>, that's slick.
If you have a process
that you want to kill  it,
we can do that with the kill command
first we have to find the process id.
I'll do that with ps. I'll grip for
that script I wanna kill. There it is.
There's this process ID and I'll kill
the process with the dash nine signal
forcibly killing it. And then the process
ID 66 59. Goodbye buddy. He's gone.
Now. Even better than kill
is P kill because you don't
need to know the process.
ID type in  kill, use the F
switch and specified the name.
You kind of think it is
and it did it to stop,
start and restart services
or Damons and Linux.
You can use the system CTL command at
your systems using System D. If not,
it'll be using service. So to stop a
service system ctl, we do Apache two.
Replace  with start.
We'll start the service,
type in status to see what's
going on or do a restart.
Now we've gone through a lot of commands.
If you want a history of all we did type
in history and that's a lot of stuff.
And finally, if you wanna reboot
pseudo reboot. If you wanna shut down,
pseudo shut down. This will shut down
your machine in about one minute.
If you want to do it now, do
a dash H now, which I'll do.
That's the end of the video.
Talk to you guys later.